## Addressing batch effect with ensemble learning

This repository stores all scripts to reproduce results and figures in the following manuscript:

> Zhang, Y., Johnson, W. E., & Parmigiani, G. (2019). Robustifying genomic classifiers to batch effects via ensemble learning. *bioRxiv*, 703587.

Scripts are stored under **./code**. Real data where we evaluated our method are under **./data**. **./figures** contain all figures in the main article and in supplementary materials. **./results_*** contain result files generated by the pipelines for both simulations, and real data application example using 6 or 4 studies.


## Reproduce results
+ Download this GitHub repository
+ In R, set the current working directory to the GitHub repository: ``setwd("<parent path>/bea_ensemble/")``
+ Run **./code/make_pub_figures_mainpaper.R** to reproduce figures in the main paper. Result files from the pipeline, which were used for the figures in the paper, are provided in **./results_***
+ Run **./code/make_pub_figures_supplement.R** to reproduce results in the supplementary materials.


## Simulation



+ **sim_DEpipe.R, sim_DEpipe_helpers.R**
    + Pipeline and helper functions for simulations. Run sim_DEpipe.R to produce the simulation results. 
    + Usage: ``Rscript sim_DEpipe.R <mean batch effect> <dispersion batch effect> <total number of samples>``
    + True and false positive rates will be stored in CSV files. 
    + Modify the parameters to change the study design, level of biological signal, sequencing depth, etc.
+ **qsub_simDEpipe.py**
    + Script to run (qsub to cluster) multiple experiments
+ **visualize.R, visualize_helpers.R**
    + Script and helper functions to visualize the simulation results. Run visualize.R to generate the plot based on the CSV result files. 
    + Change the paths to files if necessary.

## Real data application

+ **gfrn_application.R, gfrn_DE.R, gfrn_helpers.R**
    + Script and helper functions for application example on the GFRN signature dataset. Run gfrn_application.R for the PCA analysis. Run gfrn_DE.R for differential expression analysis.
    + Change the paths to files at the top of the script, if necessary.
+ **signature_data.rds**
    + RDS object for the cleaned signature dataset, published[4] and used in our previous work[5,6].

